<pre>
= How-To Provision Your VoIP Network with Fluent =

Fluent Provisioning makes it fairly easy to manage the data required 
to run a VoIP network.

Use the following steps as a general rule of thumb.

== 1. Create the "Domains" ==

By "Domains" we mean the basic network-level things that are shared 
across the whole network (or a large portion of the network).  Domains,
in this context simply means a collection of network-level options that 
may be applied to a group of SIP devices.

Some of the network-level options managed through domains include:

  * The primary and secondary SIP registrars on the network
  * The network's time server
  * The registration timeout in seconds
  * The SIP proxy servers
  * The voicemail server

This data can be specified once in the domain settings then shared 
across all devices that are assigned to that domain.

You can have more than one domain if you want.

For example, you might have several hundred SIP telephones on your 
network.  You might want half of those phones to use "Server X" as their 
primary registrar while the other half use "Server Y."

In this case you could build two domains, each with the other server as 
the primary registrar.  When building the devices you can assign half of
the devices to domain 'A' while the other half of the SIP devices could 
be assigned to domain 'B'.

Another good use of domains is to better manage migrations.  You may 
start with one set of configuration settings grouped in domain 'A' while
an improved or target set of configurations is grouped in domain 'B'.  
It is now easy to migrate phones from one set of configurations or 
servers to another - simply by assigning the devices to the new domain.

== 2. Prepare Basic Phone / Client Information ==

It would probably be good to get the following information about the SIP 
clients that will be connecting to your VoIP network:

 * Makes (brands) for all SIP devices (e.g. Polycom, SNOM)
 * Model names for all phones (e.g. SoundPoint, 6757i)
 
Ensure that your list is accurate.

=== 2a. Brands ===

It is good to note the brand of the telephone or SIP device because it 
will help you accurately identify and manage the device later.

Some examples of brands are: 

 * Polycom
 * SNOM
 * Aastra
 * Quintum
 * Grandstream
 * Cisco/Linksys

=== 2b. Model Names / Number ===

Similarly, the model of the SIP device will help you accurately identify 
and manage the device.  Model names also make it easier to provision 
features for phones.

Some models within a brand have substantially different capabilities.

It may be necessary to specify, for example: 

 * Brand X - Non-HD
 * Brand X - HD-capable
 
or something similar.

This is important because one of the important steps at this point is to 
assign a "template" for the device types you have defined.  The template 
defines the base configuration for that type of phone.  So, for example, 
imagine that you had a fleet of the above "Brand-X" phones.  Some are HD 
(High-Definition capable) and others are not HD.  The HD-capable phones 
require a diferent set of Voice Codecs than the non-HD phones.  Their 
codec configuration is substantially different then their non-HD 
brothers.  In this case, it might be best to create an HD template and a
non-HD template for the two sets of phones.

Only experience will tell whether it is really necessary to make these 
types of distinctions.  Some phones are quite resilient and gracefully 
handle situations where a codec is specified yet the phone is incapable 
of using that codec, for example.

== 3. Prepare the Subscribers (SIP Accounts) ==

Next, we shall create a list of all subscribers (SIP accounts) expected 
to operate on the network.

As a general rule, every real "phone number" on your network will be a 
SIP Account or subscriber.
 
Therefore, it would be good to think about the number scheme that shall 
be used on your network and prepare a list of all the numbers that shall 
be used.

There are many references that can be found elsewhere on this subject.

Suffice it to say that every "destination" on your voice network will 
likely be a "subscriber." 

Give some consideration to the other meta-data associated with the voice 
destinations on your network.  For example, what will be the caller-ID's 
for your endpoints?  Will there be a voice-mail box for that SIP 
account?  If so, what will the voice-mail number be?

These are some of the details that are requested when configuring SIP
accounts:

 * Username - the SIP account name.  The SIP "number" to reach that 
 endpoint
 * Password - the password that the phone will use when registering as 
 the SIP account (above)
 * The SIP domain
 * Display Name
 * Caller ID - what appears on a callee's telephone when a caller calls
 * Line Enabled - is the line even enabled?

== 4. Create the device records ==

Here is where we actually create software representations of the real 
phones.  This is also where we apply the above created device-types to 
real phones.

Devices are represented in the system under their MAC addresses.

The MAC address usually appears under or behind the SIP telephone.  For 
some models, like SNOM, the MAC address can be retrieved from the built-
in web management page for the device.

The MAC address will be 12 characters long containing numbers (0-9) and 
letters from A-Z either in upper or lowercase.

Choose the device type.  You will notice that the device types will 
appear in lists derived from the combination of the brand and make of 
the device.  This should make the selection process easier.

You may also add a brief description of the device.  This is quite 
helpful as the MAC address has no logical significance for someone 
managing the fleet of phones.  The description field can be used to 
provide further helpful details about that specific device.

Some exampled of the kind of details you might like to include are:

 * The expected installation location of the device
 * who might be using the device
 * function of the device
 
It should be noted that the description fields for any of the objects 
managed by the provisioning app have no functional significance besides 
perhaps making it easier to select objects from large lists.

== 5. Add some lines to the devices ==

Devices have been created and assigned to device types and domains.  SIP 
accounts have been created.  Now, all that is left is to create what we 
call 'lines' - the assignment of one or more SIP accounts to a device.

To create a line do the following:

 1. Pick a device from the list.  The 'make', 'model', description, and 
 the numer of already attached lines will appear in the list.
 2. Pick the SIP account in the next drop-down list.  The description 
 and sip accountname will appear in the list.
 3. Finally, pick the number of the line.  The number of the line 
 equates directly with the "lines" that the phone is capable of 
 managing.  Many SIP phones support multiple "lines" and often have 
 several buttons on the keypad representing those lines.
 
 Put a number in the field that represents the line number of the phone.
 
 Note: we recommend at least assigning a line "1".
 
Once all the above fields have been selected the line will be created 
when you click the 'create' button.

At this point all of the necessary objects have been created.

A phone with a mac address corresponding to one of the created devices 
in the system should have a full set of configuration file generated for 
it as it boots and requests them from the provisioning server.

To test you new setup look at the Testing document.
</pre>
